>> In today's lesson we'll be
learning how to use the Emacs editor.
Emacs, like vi, is a powerful editor.
Some people prefer vi,
others prefer Emacs.
My recommendation to you is to experiment
with the Emacs editor and the vi editor,
and see which one you feel
more comfortable with.
You can't make a bad choice.
To edit a file with Emacs, run Emacs and
provide it the file name
that you wish to edit.
When you look at the Emacs documentation,
you'll see C dash character.
This means to hold down the control
key while pressing that character.
For example, C dash H means to hold down
the control key while pressing the H key.
We see C dash H space T.
That means to hold down the Ctrl
key while pressing the H key.
Release the Ctrl key and
then type the letter T.
When you see M dash character,
that means to hold down the Meta key.
The Meta key is the Alt key.
You can also substitute the escape key for
the alt key.
For example, M dash F translates
to holding down the alt key and
pressing F or pressing and
releasing escape followed by the F key.
You may need to use the escape
key as the meta key,
since alt can sometimes be intercepted
by your terminal program, for instance.
If you want to simplify things just always
use the escape key for the meta key.
Use control H to get help.
Type control X followed by
control C to exit Emacs.
Control X, control S, saves the file.
Control H, T,
will start the built in tutorial.
Ctrl H, K followed by a key
will describe that key.
You can use this to get help on a specific
key command or key combination.
Control P will take you to
the previous line while contril
N will take you to the next line.
Control B is to go backward one character.
Control F is to go forward one character.
Meta F will move you forward one word,
and meta B will take you back one word.
Control A will take you to
the beginning of the line.
Control E will take you
to the end of a line.
Meta less than will take you to
the beginning of the file, and
meta followed by the greater than symbol
will take you to the end of the file.
To delete a character, type control D,
to delete a word it's meta D.
Control K will kill the rest
of the current line.
To kill the entire line, just position the
cursor at the beginning of the line and
type Control K.
In VI yank means to copy,
in Emacs yank means to paste.
So control Y means to yank or
paste from the previously killed text.
To undo, type control X, U.
Control S will start a forward search.
Type the text you're looking for, and
type Control S again to move to
the next occurrence of that text.
Press enter when you're done searching.
Control R starts a reverse search.
Like VI,
Emacs provides a way to repeat commands.
For instance, to kill three lines of text,
type Control U, three, Control K.
Let's edit a file with emacs.
We'll do file dot text.
To navigate, we can use control
N to go to the next slide, and
control F will go forward one character.
Control P will go previous slide.
Control B will go back a character.
To get to the beginning of the line,
type Control A, and
to the end, Control E.
And you can just start typing
text wherever your cursor is.
[SOUND] Let's delete
a character with control D.
To delete a word type meta D.
Then I can use alt D or
Escape D.
Let's kill a line of text with control K,
and I'll move to the bottom of
the file and yank it, or paste it in.
Let's start a search.
Let's search for the.
Control S will take you
to the next occurrence,
and then when you're done,
you can just hit enter.
And if we do a reverse search,
we can do that with control R.
Let's do the same thing.
Control R takes you to the previous one,
and when you're done, you can hit enter.
To exit, control X, control C.
And I'm not going to save my changes.
Let's get back into Emacs again.
[SOUND] And we can save the file
with control X, control S.
Again, to exit, control X, control C.
Emacs is a more powerful editor than nano.
Emacs is also an alternative for vi.
Again some people prefer vi,
others prefer Emacs.
I suggest you try them both and
see what you feel comfortable with.
I also suggest that you take
the tutorial by starting Emacs and
pressing control H, T.